

##### PDF PAGE 10 #####

Auspicious and Inauspicious Muhurtas "T^T ^*1^1 uRT rr f^n ^f^>5rTS^cTTS^fn I ^TF^f EjpitcJi^wji v^T^j II^JI AMRITA YOGA AND DAGDHA YOGA ON DAYS SUN- DAY ETC. If on days Sunday, Monday and so on there happen to fall rcspcclivciy Nanda, Bhadra, Nanda. Java. Rikta, Bhadra and Poorna, then there is Amrila Yoga. In ihc same way. if there hap- pens to fail the Nakshtra of Bharani on Sunday, Chitra on Monday. Utlara shadha on Tuesday. Dlianishtha on Wednesday . Uttara phalguni on Thursday, Jyeshtha on Friday and Rcwali on Saturday. Daghda Yoga happens to be on that day Notes: If it happens that there is the Nanda tithi (1/6/11) on Sunday. Bhadra tithi (2/7/12) on Monday, Nanda tithi (1/6/11) on Tuesday, Java tithi (3/8/13) on Wednesday. Rikta tithi 4/9/14 on Thursday, Bhadra lithi (2/7/12) on Friday and Pooma tithi (5/10/15 or 5/10/30) on Saturday, there is formed on these days what is called Amrita Yoga. ]According lo Shn Go\ind ji Devarisht Narada's shloka ^T, cfSTT ^ ^T, vJFTT, f^Fen, TsTT I I sliouid he interpreted in this nay "If n happens lha! there is the Nanda Tithi on Sundas. Bhadra Tithi on Mondav Xanda Tnln on fuesday. Java Tillu on Wednesday. Rikta Tithi on Thursday. Bhadra Tithi on Friday and Poorna Tithi on Saturday, then Amrita Yoga is formed, this is the meaning"] But certain writers have interpreted that these days are Mnta Yoga forming if ihcsc Tithis fall on them Actually they ha\e wrong- ly interpreted the cvprcssion The meaning of the expression should be this - If Poorna tithi falls on Saturday, the yoga formed will be Amrila The expression xxhen it is analysed is "TTt + SPJeT -i- Tins meaning is verified by the sWoka wnl- tcn by Maliarishi Kashyapa 7 Auspicious and Inauspicious Muhunas "T^T ^f^RSTT TSm rT f^TT ^W^T^lTTS^crTS^fH | 3?^ tjpitcji^wji ll^ll AMRITA YOGA AND DAGDHA YOGA ON DAYS SUN- DAY ETC. If on da>s Sunday, Monday and so on there happen to fall rcspccliveiy Nanda. Bhadra, Nanda. Java. Rikta, Bhadra and Poorna, then there is Amrila Yoga. In ihc same way. if there hap- pens to fall the Nakshtra of Bharani on Sundav, Chitra on Monday. Utlara shadha on Tuesday. Dhanishtha on Wednesday. Uttara phatguni on Thursday, Jyeshtha on Friday and Rcwati on Saturday. Daghda Yoga happens to be on that day Notes; If it happens that there is the Nanda tithi (1/6/11) on Sunday. Bhadra tithi (2/7/12) on Monday, Nanda tithi (1/6/11) on Tuesday, Java tithi (3/8/13) on Wednesday. Rikta tithi 4/9/14 on Thursday, Bhadra lithi (2/7/12) on Friday and Poorna tithi (5/10/15 or 5/10/30) on Saturday, there is formed on these days what is called Amrita Yoga. (According lo Shn Go\ind ji Devanshi Narada s shloka: ^T, cRTT ^T, vJPTT, ^ f^T, ^ ^T^ft I I should he interpreted m this nay "If n happens thai there is the Nanda l ithi on Sundav. Bhadra Tithi on Mondav Nanda Tithi on Tuesday. Java Tillu on Wednesday. Rikta Tithi on Thursday. Bhadra Tithi on Friday and Poorna Tithi on Saturday, then Amrita Yoga is formed, this is the meaning"] But certain writers have interpreted that these days are Mrita Yoga forming if these Tithis fail on them Actually they have wrong- ly interpreted the evprcssion The meaning of the expression should be this - If Poorna tithi falls on Saturday, the yoga formed will be Amrila The expression when it is analysed is "TTt + 3T^cT Tins meaning is verified by the shloka writ- ten by Maharishi Kashvapa


##### PDF PAGE 19 #####

Muhurta Chinte Mam H^rf 11 11 COMBINATIONS WHICH ARE TO BE LEFT OUT IN DO- ING ALL AUSPICIOUS DEEDS; The Panchami Tithi (5) with the Hasta Nakshtra falling on Sunday, Saptami (7) with Ashwini on Tues- day, Shashthi (6) with Mrigasira on Monday, Ashtami (8) with Anuradha on Wednesday, Dashmi (10) with Rewati on Friday, Navami (9) with Pushya on Thursday and Ekadashi (11) with Rohini on Saturday-these combinations are to be avoided in doing all auspi- cious deeds Notes; If there is the conjunction of only the Nakshtra and the day, it is auspicious and should be adopted in doing all auspicious deeds; but it becomes inauspicious if there is the conjunction of the above stated tithis. This yoga is referred to as Madhu Sarpisha yoga Maharishi Vashistha has spoken of another kind of Madhu Sarpisha yoga which is named as 'Halahala' yoga. According to Vashistha the conjunction of Sunday-Panchatni-Kritika, Monday-Dwitiya Chitra, Tuesday-Poornima-Rohini, Wcdncsday-Saptami-Bharani, Thursday- Tray odashi-Anuradha and Saturday-Ashtami-Rewati-makes what is called the inauspicious yoga of Halahala. "arzmi tort xf i ^ 119? 11 YOGAS (COMBINATIONS) WHICH ARE TO BE AVOIDED IN ENTERING NEW HOUSE. TRAVELLING AND MARRYING The rise of Ashw ini Nakshtra on Tuesday, of Rohini on Saturday and Pushya Nakshtra on Thursday-these combinations are to be avoided respectively for entering newly constructed House, travelling and mar- rying Notes. Although siddhi yoga that is. the yoga which ensures, the successful completion of a deed, is formed in the conjunction of the above-mentioned days and Nakshtras. but this yoga is to be re- jected in the ceremony of entering a newly constructed house, trav- elling and marrying. Muhurta Chinb Mam H^rf 11 w 11 COMBINATIONS WHICH ARE TO BE LEFT OUT IN DO- ING ALL AUSPICIOUS DEEDS: The Panchami Tithi (5) with the Hasta Nakshtta falling on Sunday, Saptami (7) with Ashwini on Tues- day, Shashthi (6) with Mrigasira on Monday, Ashtami (8) with Anuradha on Wednesday, Dashmi (10) with Rewati on Friday, Navami (9) with Pushya on Thursday and Ekadashi (11) with Rohini on Saturday-these combinations are to be avoided in doing all auspi- cious deeds. Notes: If there is the conjunction of only the Nakshtra and the day, it is auspicious and should be adopted in doing all auspicious deeds; but it becomes inauspicious if there is the conjunction of the above stated tithis. This yoga is referred to as Madhu Sarpisha yoga Maharishi Vashistha has spoken of another kind of Madhu Sarpisha yoga which is named as LHaIahala' yoga. According to Vashistha the conjunction of Sunday-Panchami-Kritika, Monday-Dwitiya Chitra, Tuesday-Poornima-Rohini, Wednesday-Saptami-Bharani, Thursday- Trayodashi-Anuradha and Saturday-Ashtami-Rewati-makes what is called the inauspicious yoga of Halahala. mcHIUi tort | 11 33 11 YOGAS (COMBINATIONS) WHICH ARE TO BE AVOIDED IN ENTERING NEW HOUSE. TRAVELLING AND MARRYING The rise of Ashw ini Nakshtra on Tuesday, of Rohini on Saturday and Pushya Nakshtra on Thursday-these combinations are to be avoided respccmeh for entering newly constructed House, travelling and mar- rying Notes. Although siddhi yoga that is. the yoga which ensures, the successful completion of a deed, ts formed in the conjunction of the abo\e-mentioncd days and Nakshtras. but this yoga is to be re- jected in the ceremony of entering a newly constructed house, trav- elling and marrying.


##### PDF PAGE 52 #####

The Nakahtru SLNa Nakshtn Symmyiiis 21. Uttamhadha Visiiwe, Vishwcdeva 22. Abbijit Vidhi, Vimnchi. Dhaata, VMhaata 23. Shravana Govind, VMum, Shniti, Kama Shrava. 24. DhamsMha Vasa, SkzmmMki. 25. Shatbhisha Varuna, Apanpali. Nserssha, Jalssha. 26. Poorvabhadrapada Ajpada. Ach-charana Ajanghri 27. Uttara Bhadrapada A Sun named as Ahiibudhanaya, 28. Revati A sun named as Poosha. Antya, Paushna. crsrf^ii41«i^itii'vUKiHiRf^5^ inn THE NAKSHTRAS, STHIR OR DHRUWA (FIXED) AND THE THINGS WHICH SHOULD BE DONE IN THEM: The this; Utlaras (Uttaia Phalguni, Uttarashadha and Lfttara-Bhadrapada) Rdiini and the day of Sunday these are called Sthtr or Dhniwa. In these Nakshtras and on this day dungs of fixed and permanent nature, things concerning one's house, sowing of seeds things or rites done for getting peace and the planting of small garden etc. can be auspi- ciously done. Notes: If things of permaneiit significance are perfonned in the Sthir and Dhniwa Nakshtras, the results obtained will also be of per- manent nature. Brahmarishi Vashistha has said, " ^5 ^f§RTRff^ ^ cTTf^T that is, the things which are advised to be done in the Nakshtras called Mridu are also auspicious-effects giv- ing when they are begun in these-Sthir, Dhruwa-Naksbtras. 'WlctllRrO ^ xioi*j | The Nakahtru SL Na Nakshtn Synoayms 21. Uttarashadha Vishwe, Vishwedeva 22. Abhijit Vidhi, Viranchi, Dhaata, Vidhaata. 23. Shravana Govind, Vishnu, Shruti, Kama Shrava. 24. Dhanislaha Vasu, Shravishtha 25. Shatbhisha Varuna, Apanpati. Neeresha, Jalesha. 26. Poorvabhadrapada Ajpada, Ach-charana Ajanghri 27. Utlara Bhadrapada i < 28. Revati A sun named as Poosha, Antya Paushna. 11 ^ 11 THE NAKSHTRAS, STHIR OR DHRUWA (FIXED) AND THE THINGS WHICH SHOULD BE DONE IN THEM: The three Uttaras (Uttaia Phalguni, Uttarashadha and Uttara-Bhadrapada) Rohini and the day of Sunday these are called Sthtr or Dhniwa In these Nakshtras and on this day things of fixed and permanent nature, things concerning one's house, sowing of seeds things or rites done for getting peace and the planting of small garden etc. can be auspi- ciously done. Notes: If things of permanent significance are performed in the Sthir and Dhniwa Nakshtras, the results obtained will also be erf 1 per- manent nature. Brahmarishi Vashistha has said, " ^5 ^ ^ ctTpf OJiqlPi," that is, the things which are advised to be done in the Nakshtras called Mridu are also auspicious-effects giv- ing when they are begun in these-Sthir, Dhmwa-Nakshtras. 'WIctllRrO Tt^tcqifcJ ^ x|oi*j |


##### PDF PAGE 54 #####

IlwNakchtM THE NAKSHTRAS CALLED KSHIPRA LAGHU (SMALL) ETC. AND THE THINGS WHICH SHOULD BE PERFORN&D IN THEM: The Nakshtras Hxsta, Ashwini, Fusfepi and Abhijit and the day of Thursday are called Kshipra and Laghu In these the bosmesa of selling, sexual intercourse, teaming of the sbastras, getting jewels made and wearing them, (he 64 IoIm shilpa (scab :ure etc.) kala etc. (names of the various fcalas or aits) and those tisings which are ad- vised (o be perfonned in the nakshtras called chars may be auspi- doosly begun and performed. wa ^1"!^ 11(911 THE NAKSHTRAS MIUDU (DELICATE) AND MAITRA (FRIENDLY) AND THE THINGS WHICH SHOULD BE PER- FORMED IN THEM: The four Nakshtras Mnphiia. ReWati. Chitra and Anmadha and the day of Friday arc called Mridu (ddieste and Benefic) and Mite (friendly). In these the ieamiiig and the singing of songs, gettiag dothes prqsored and wearing them, playing games, the things ^dating to friends, getting jewels made and wearing them may be auspicioasty done. I It; 11 THE NAKSHTRAS CALLED TEEKSHNA (SHARP) AND DARUNA (HORRIBLE) AND THE THINGS WHICH SHOULD BE PERFORMED IN THEM: The Nakshtras Moola, Jyeriaha, Anha, and Ashksha and (be day of Seturday, these are called Hkslma (sharp) and Darana (bcmUs). In these AUudtear Karma (k^rana or killis x some one, Mohan or bypnorizing some one, Ucbchatan (distraction) etc., these Tentrika experiments), deeds of ambush, and of honor, causing diflerenoe among friends etc. (that is, causing quarre) by backbiting) and tmniiig ad tying cf a aimal, these dungs toy be efffcetivdy and argndoiisty done Hie Nakshtra THE NAKSHTRAS CALLED KSHEPRA LAGHU (SMALL) ETC. AND THE THINGS WHICH SHOULD BE PERFORMED IN THEM: The Naksbtras Hxsta, Ashwim, Pushya and Abhijit and the day of Thursday are called Kshqxaand Laglm. In these the business of sdling, sexual intercourse, kaming of the shastras, getting jewels made and wearing diem, (he 64 kalas shilpa (scu^Mme etc.) kaJa etc. (names of the various kalas or aits) and those thingg which are ad- vised to be performed in the nakshtms called chara may be auspi- ciously begun and performed. erafldwrfkintsii THE NAKSHTRAS MRIDU (DELICATE) AND MAITRA (FRIENDLY) AND THE THINGS WHICH SHOULD BE PER- FORMED IN THEM: The four Nakshtms Mrigshira, Retfati, Chitrs and Anmadha and the d^ of Friday are called Mridu (delicate and Benefic) and Maitni (friendly). In these the Icarmng and the ringing of songs, getting clothes prqwed and wearing them, playing games, the dungs relating to friends, getting jewels made and wearing them may be auspiciously done. dNVkflvi I 11 <; 11 THE NAKSHTRAS CALLED TEEKSHNA (SHARP) AND DARUNA (HORRIBLE) AND THE THINGS WHICH SHOULD BE PERFORMED EN THEM: The Nakshtras Moola, Jyesfatha, Ardra, and Ashksha and the day of Saturday, these ate called Tikshna (sharp) and Damna (horrible). In these Abhichaar Karma (Matana or killing some one, Mohan or hypnotizing some one, Uchchatan (distracrion) etc., these Tantrika experiments), deeds of ambush, and of honor, causing diflerence among friends etc. (that is, causing quarrel by backbiting) and tmning ad lying of a anhnal, these dungs toy be effectively and auspiciously done


##### PDF PAGE 66 #####

THE MUHURTAS WITH REGARD TO DIGGING WELLS OR TANKS AND BEGINNING DANCING; In the Nakshtras of Amiiadha, Hasta, those called Dhruwa, and thoK of Dhanistha, Shatbhisha, Magha, Poorvashadha, Revati Pushya and Mrigshira; if there is Metcury or Jupiter in the Ascendant; if the Matefics are weak; if Venus is situated in the 10th House from the Ascendant and the Moon is of the watery signs (9/10/11/12), in such a Muhmta the dig- ging of a well and a tank etc is auspicious. In the above said Nakshtras excluding Poorvashadha and Magha and including Jyeshtha Nakshtra, if there is Meicuiy in the Ascendant and the Moon is there in Gemini or Virgo sign and there are benefic planets in the 4th House, then the learning or the first beginning of Dancing is auspi- cious. Notes; In the above mentioned Shloka the situation of Mercu- ry in the Ascendant, that of the Moon in the Gemini or the Virgo sign and then that of benefic planets in the 4th House have been spo- ken of as auspicious. Now, after fee situation of thw two benefic planets (Mercury and the Moon) only two benefic planets remain. Therefore, from the phrase in the Shloka the plural of a benefic planet does not seem to be proper due to the reason that possibly there may be one or two benefic planets in the 4th House. Therefore this reading may be proper. Although according to other teamed astrologers the Nakshtras auspicious for digging small well, well and tank are different, even then the Achaiya (the writer of the present book) has spoken of Nakshtras of the same type for all of them because of the same kind of all the three (they are all reservoir of water) things. THE NAKSHTRAS OF VAAPI OR SMALL WELL; Swati, Ashwini, Pushya, Hasta, Punarvasu, Rewati and Shatabhisha. THE NAKSHTRAS OF DIGGING WELL: Hasta, Pushya, Dhanistha, Shatabhisha. Anuradha. Magha and all the three Uttaras THE NAKSHTRAS OF BUILDING TANK: Ashwini, Mrigshira, Rewati, all the 3 Uttaras, Rohini Pushya, Shatbhisha, and Poorvashadha. 11 ^ 11 THE MUHURTAS WITH REGARD TO DIGGING WELLS OR TANKS AND BEGINNING DANCING: In the Nakshtras of Anuradha, Hasta, those called Dhruwa, and those of Dhanistha, Shatbhisha, Magha, Poorvashadha, Revati Pushya and Mrigshira; if there is Mercury or Jupiter in the Ascendant; if the Malefics are weak; if Venus is situated in the 10th House from the Ascendant and the Moc»i is of the watery signs (9/10/11/12), in such a Muhmta the dig- ging of a well and a tank etc is auspicious. In the above said Nakshtras excluding Poorvashadha and Magha and including Jyeshtha Nakshtra, if there is Mercury in the Ascendant and the Moon is there in Gemini or Virgo sign and there are benefic planets in the 4th House, then the learning or the first beginning of Dancing is auspi- cious. Notes: In the above mentioned SUoka the situation of Mercu- ry in the Ascendant, that of the Moon in the Gemini or the Virgo sign and then that of benefic planets in the 4th House have been spo- ken of as auspicious. Now, after the situation of these two benefic planets (Mercury and the Moon) only two benefic planets remain. Therefore, from the phrase in the Shloka the plural of a benefic planet does not seem to be proper due to the reason that possibly there may be one or two benefic planets in the 4th House. Therefore this reading may be proper. Although according to other teamed astrologers tie Nakshtras auspicious for digging small well, well and tank are different, even then the Acharya (the writer of the present book) has spoken of Nakshtras of the same type for all of them because of the same kind of all the three (they are all reservoir of water) things. THE NAKSHTRAS OF VAAPI OR SMALL WELL: Swati, Ashwini, Pushya, Hasta, Punarvasu, Rewati and Shatabhisha THE NAKSHTRAS OF DIGGING WELL: Hasta, Pushya, Dhanistha, Shatabhisha. Anuradha, Magha and all the three Uttaras. THE NAKSHTRAS OF BUILDING TANK: Ashwini, Mrigshira, Rewati, all the 3 Uttaras, Rohini Pushya, Shatbhisha, and Poorvashadha.


##### PDF PAGE 120 #####

The Stimsakans THE MUHURTA FOR SIM WTA SAMSKARA: The ing or doing of the Samskara woich is named as Simtats is ampik dous on the days of Thursday, Sunday, and Tuesday; in the hMtafalrag of Mngashira, Pusbya, Moola, Shravana, Pttnarvasu and Hasta; on other Tithis except those of the Rikta Tithis, the Amavasya, the 12th, the 6th and the 8th Tithis, (that is on the 1/2/3/5/7/10/11/13 Tithis); when Masagati or the lord of the Month of conception is eadowed with strength (since the month in which the deed of conception is performed to the 9th Month, them is the Masapati or Lord of the Month for every month); in the 6th or 8th month from the concqp* tion; when the Besefic Planets ate in the Angles and Trines; when the Malefic Planets ass in the 3/6/11 Houses and when there is the Ascendant and the Navamsha of a Male sign. Or the Simanta Samskara is excellent in the Nakshtras named as Dhmwa (the 3 Uttaras and Rohini) and Rewati, on auspicious days and when there is the Ascendant and the Navamsha of a male sign. Notes: The word 'Samskara' or 'Sanskaia* means the changing of the shape of something, giving it a new shape or form. The rites or deeds described in the 'shrutis' and 'smritis' (the religious books which wm heard and remembered) by which man is purified (of sins) are spoken of as 'Samskaras'. The name of the invisible deed giving specific significance which is done by performing special Vedic deeds, ordinary and exceptional in one's own caste and place, has teen said to be 'Samskara'. In this chapter the won! 'Samskara' has been used for the invisible specific meaning, for the suitable or favourable day, Nakshtra etc. The Indian Manisha (thinkers) have en- gaged their attention in the search of absolute happiness or bliss and they have found it in Moksha (or relief from the cycle of birth and doth). Therefore, (he deeds by which man is cleaned of his sins and becomes a rightful claimant of Nirwana or Moksha Pada are aim called 'Samskaras'. The Sage 'Charaka' has said 'TTT^jRl ft! yntixnsiiigisiKl* that is, 'Samskara' is the name of removing the evil qualities which are already there in man and bearing good qualities in their place. From this point of view Samskara is the plmaning Of the new building of man. According to the Indian Munis (tiunteri) Samskaras are 48. but of these it is only the 16 that are spedaDy performed. The Names of the 16 Samskaras; I. Garbhadhan (ooooqprioo) 2. Punsavana 3. Simant 4. Jaata Karma 5. Naama Karana {chrisKst- The SaiDMUcans THE MUHURTA FOR SIMWTA SAMSKARA: The ing or doing of the Samskara which is named as Simanta is anspi- cious on the days of Thursday, Sunday, and Tuesday, in the Naksfatras of Mhgashira, Pushya, Moola, Shravana, Punarvasu and Hasta; on the other Tithis except those of the Rikta Tithis, the Amavasiya, the 12th, the 6th and the 8th Tithis, (that is on the 1/2/3/5/7/10/11/13 Tithis); when Masapah or the lord of the Month of conception is endowed with strength (since the month in which the deed of conception is performed to the 9th Month, there is the Masapati or Lord of the Month for every month); in the 6th or 8th month from the concept tion; when the Benefic Planets are in the Angles and Trines; when the Malefic Planets are in the 3/6/11 Houses and when there is the Ascendant and the Navamsha of a Male sign. Or the Simanta Samskara is excellent in the Nakshtras named as Dhruwa (the 3 Uttaras and Rohini) and Rewati, on auspicious days and when there is the Ascendant and the Navamsha of a male sign. Notes: The word 'Samskara' or 'Sanskara' means the changing of the shape of something, giving it a new shape or form. The rites or deeds described in the 'shrutis' and 'smritis' (the religious books which were heard and remembered) by which man is purified (of sins) are spoken of as 'Samskaras'. The name of the invisible deed giving specific significance which is done by performing special Vedic deeds, ordinary and exceptional in one's own caste and place, has been said to be 'Samskara'. In this chapter the word 'Samskara* has been used for the invisible specific meaning, for the suitable or favourable day, Nakshtra etc. The Indian Manisha (thinkers) have en- gaged their attention in the search of absolute happiness or bliss and they have found it in Moksha (or relief from the cycle of birth and death). Therefore, (he deeds by which man is cleaned of his sins and becomes a rightful claimant of Nirwana or Moksha Pada are also called 'Samskaras'. The Sage 'Charaka' has said 'TTmjIVI ft yntitpiirigiiiKl* that is, 'Samskara' is the name of removing the evil qualities which are already there in man and bearing good qualifies in their place. From this point of view Samskara is the plamring Of the new building of man. According to the Indian Munis (thinkers) Samskaras are 48, but of these it is only the 16 that are specially performed. The Names of the 16 Samskaras: 1. Garbhadhan (conceptioo) 2. Punsavana 3. Simant 4. Jaata Karma 5. Naama Karana (christen-
